[Term Entry] PHP Arrays array_push()_07/01/2023_10:45:PM (#2646)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/arrays/terms/array-push/array-push.md

```

The `array_push()` function has one required parameter and some optional parameters:

- `$array`: Specifies the input `array`.
- `$value1 ... $valueN`: Specifies the element values to add. This function adds one or more element values at a time which are separated by commas.

The `array_push()` function returns the element count of `$array` with the new element values inserted to the end of the `$array`.

## Example

The following example uses the `array_push()` function to add `"Chervolet"`, and `"Toyota"` element values to the end of the indexed array `$car_brands`:

```php
<?php
$car_brands = array("Mercedes","Ford");
array_push($car_brands,"Chervolet","Toyota");
print_r($car_brands);
?>
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array (
[0] => Mercedes
[1] => Ford
[2] => Chervolet
[3] => Toyota
)
```

## Codebyte Example

This example is runnable and uses the `array_push()` function:

> **Note:** Each example below uses `print_r`, `echo`, and `foreach` syntaxes to output a specific array's values and keys after that array has been inserted with new element values using the `array_push()` function.  

```codebyte/php

> <?php

Reviewer: @phuongtrieu97coder Is there some problem you have with using the return value of the function in the example? In any event, since you didn't go with my original suggestion, can you prune this codebyte back to just the $supermarkets example?

Author: @SSwiniarski  Is there any problem with my syntaxes that you can't run it effectively? If not, please keep it. I just want users or students learn different ways to use array_push() function, I think you want it too. If you want the codebyte followed your rules, at least give me some examples about how you want the return values look like including the array_push() function, values inside it, the output syntax, the result you got, etc.

Reviewer: Do something like this:
````
```codebyte/php
<?php
  $supermarkets = array("Costco","Walmart");
  $size = count($supermarkets);
  echo("Array legnth before array_push(): " . $size) . "\n\n";
  $newsize = array_push($supermarkets,"Sam's Club","Target");
  echo("Array legnth after array_push(): " . $newsize . "\n\n");
?>
```
````

Author: @SSwiniarski Could I add foreach loop into your examples?

Reviewer: @phuongtrieu97coder Go ahead it's your entry. I just wanted the codebyte to be different from the original example and thought using the return value from the function was a good way to do that.

---
Title: 'array_push()'
Description: 'Inserts one or more element values to the end of an array, and return the new number of element values in the array.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`array_push()`** method inserts one or more element values to the end of an array, and return the new number of element values in the array.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> array_push($array, $value)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
array_push($array, $value1, $value2 ... $valueN)
```

```

The `array_push()` function has one required parameter and some optional parameters:

- `$array`: Specifies the input `array`.

> - `$value`: Specifies the element value to add. This function can add more than one element value at a time that can be seperated by commas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$value1 ... $valueN`: Specifies the element values to add. This function adds one or more element values at a time which are separated by commas.
```

> The `array_push()` function returns an `array` containing all element values from the given `$array` with new element values that has been inserted to the end of the `$array`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `array_push()` function returns the element count of `$array` with the new element values inserted to the end of the `$array`.
```

## Example

The following example uses the `array_push()` function to add `"Chervolet"`, and `"Toyota"` element values to the end of the indexed array `$car_brands`:

```php
<?php
$car_brands = array("Mercedes","Ford");
array_push($car_brands,"Chervolet","Toyota");
print_r($car_brands);
?>
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array (
[0] => Mercedes
[1] => Ford
[2] => Chervolet
[3] => Toyota
)
```

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: The codebyte is the same as the example, but for the values used. It should be a little different. Maybe you can do something like using `array_push()` a couple of times and printing the return value each time.

  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`array_push()`** method inserts one or more element values to the end of an array, and returns the new number of element values in the array.

## Syntax

```pseudo
array_push($array, $value1, $value2, ... $valueN)
```

The `array_push()` function has one required parameter and some optional parameters:

- `$array`: Specifies the input `array`.
- `$value1 ... $valueN`: Specifies the element values to add. This function adds one or more element values at a time which are separated by commas.

The `array_push()` function returns the element count of `$array` with the new element values inserted to the end of the `$array`.

## Example

The following example uses the `array_push()` function to add `"Chervolet"`, and `"Toyota"` element values to the end of the indexed array `$car_brands`:

```php
<?php
$car_brands = array("Mercedes","Ford");
array_push($car_brands,"Chervolet","Toyota");
print_r($car_brands);
?>
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array (
[0] => Mercedes
[1] => Ford
[2] => Chervolet
[3] => Toyota
)
```

## Codebyte Example

This example is runnable and uses the `array_push()` function:

> ```codebyte/php

Reviewer: @phuongtrieu97coder I don't see where you are using the return value like I suggested. This is just the same type of example repeated several times.

  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`array_push()`** method inserts one or more element values to the end of an array, and returns the new number of element values in the array.

## Syntax

```pseudo
array_push($array, $value1, $value2, ... $valueN)
```

The `array_push()` function has one required parameter and some optional parameters:

- `$array`: Specifies the input `array`.
- `$value1 ... $valueN`: Specifies the element values to add. This function adds one or more element values at a time which are separated by commas.

The `array_push()` function returns the element count of `$array` with the new element values inserted to the end of the `$array`.

## Example

The following example uses the `array_push()` function to add `"Chervolet"`, and `"Toyota"` element values to the end of the indexed array `$car_brands`:

```php
<?php
$car_brands = array("Mercedes","Ford");
array_push($car_brands,"Chervolet","Toyota");
print_r($car_brands);
?>
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array (
[0] => Mercedes
[1] => Ford
[2] => Chervolet
[3] => Toyota
)
```

## Codebyte Example

This example is runnable and uses the `array_push()` function:

> > **Note:** The first example uses `count()` function to count the length of an array. `foreach` syntaxes in the examples below is used to loop through each keys and values of an array.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The example uses `count()` to highlight the length of the array before and after the addition of elements.  A `foreach` loop is used to cycle through the keys and values of the array.   
```

```codebyte/php
<?php
	$supermarkets = array("Costco","Walmart");
	$size = count($supermarkets);

> 	echo("Array legnth before array_push(): " . $size) . "\n\n";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	echo("Array length before array_push(): " . $size) . "\n\n";
```

	$newsize = array_push($supermarkets,"Sam's Club","Target");

> 	echo("Array legnth after array_push(): " . $newsize . "\n\n");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	echo("Array length after array_push(): " . $newsize . "\n\n");
```

	foreach($supermarkets as $val){

>       echo “Supermarket’s name: $val. \n";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      echo “Supermarket’s name: " . $val . "\n";
```

## Example

The following example uses the `array_push()` function to add `"Chervolet"`, and `"Toyota"` element values to the end of the indexed array `$car_brands`:

```php
<?php
$car_brands = array("Mercedes","Ford");
array_push($car_brands,"Chervolet","Toyota");
print_r($car_brands);
?>
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array (
[0] => Mercedes
[1] => Ford
[2] => Chervolet
[3] => Toyota
)
```

## Codebyte Example

This example is runnable and uses the `array_push()` function:

> **Note:** The first example uses `count()` function to count the length of an array. `foreach` syntaxes in the examples below is used to loop through each keys and values of an array.   

```codebyte/php
<?php
	$supermarkets = array("Costco","Walmart");
	$size = count($supermarkets);
	echo("Array legnth before array_push(): " . $size) . "\n\n";
	$newsize = array_push($supermarkets,"Sam's Club","Target");
	echo("Array legnth after array_push(): " . $newsize . "\n\n");

	foreach($supermarkets as $val){
      echo “Supermarket’s name: $val. \n";
	}

> 	echo "\n\n";

Reviewer: Can you just end the codebyte here, we don't need the bit with `$companies`.
